Hi. Welcome to course three, Datastores and persistence.
My name is [inaudible] , I am a software engineer at Netflix.
For the past 15 years,
I've built many different kinds of applications using Java.
It is my pleasure to be your instructor for this course.
Today, I'm going to be teaching you how to choose a Datastore
and use it to build the persistence layer for your Java applications.
Data persistence is an essential component of every application.
Some applications are built just to manage certain types of data.
Choosing the right Datastore for your applications is one of
the most important decisions that you will make as a developer.
For some applications, the Datastore drives the design and architecture.
In this course, you're going to learn about both relational and non-relational databases.
Non-relational databases are commonly known as NoSQL databases,
relational databases best-fit applications where the structure
of data is known beforehand and doesn't change often.
Non-relational databases on the other hand are suited for
applications that deal with unstructured data.
There are various other differences between these databases,
but this is one of the primary reasons developers choose one or the other.
This lesson focuses on relational databases.
There are many relational databases in the market.
For this course, we will be using MySQL,
one of the most popular and widely used relational database.
Like most other relational databases,
MySQL uses the structured query language or SQL to define,
update, and query the database.
You will install MySQL in your local workstation
and set up a database that will be used throughout this course.
You will also learn basic SQL statements to perform,
create, read, update, and delete operations.
Note that teaching all the features of MySQL is beyond the boundaries of this course.
You will learn just enough features to use
MySQL for your application's persistence layer.
Next, you will write Java programs that interact with
MySQL using an API called Java database connectivity,
more commonly referred as JDBC.
You will use JDBC to connect to MySQL,
send SQL statements to it,
and processes the results of those statements.
Later in the lesson,
you will learn how JDBC makes it easy to switch to a different database.
A lot of the code that you will write can be used as
is to interact with the different database like Postgres.
Next, you will get introduced to database migrations and why they are important.
You will use a library called flyway to set up and run migrations.
Last but not least,
we'll be using Spring Boot as our application framework.
All of the glucode necessary for a Spring Boot application will be provided,
and you will only write the database interaction portion of the application.
We'll also use Maven to assist us in compiling.